.TH "JSONLOGALERT" "1" "2024-09-28" "0.8.0.dev0" "jsonlogalert Manual"
.SH NAME
jsonlogalert \- Read JSON structured logs and filter...
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jsonlogalert
[OPTIONS] [LOGFILE]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read JSON structured logs and filter entries for unusual activity.
.PP
    When no LOGFILE(s) are provided, read/tail and filter logs for configured log sources.
    Alternatively, read and/or tail and filter LOGFILE(s) for a specified SOURCE.
    When LOGFILE is -, read standard input.
    
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c,\fP \-\-config\-file FILE
Read options from configuration FILE.  [default: /etc/jsonlogalert.conf]
.TP
\fB\-d,\fP \-\-config\-dir DIRECTORY
Set path to directory containing source and service definitions.  [default: /etc/jsonlogalert.d]
.TP
\fB\-v,\fP \-\-verbose
Be more verbose; can specify more than once.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Show the version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-s,\fP \-\-source SOURCE
Read only this log SOURCE; can specify more than once.
.TP
\fB\-\-service\fP SERVICE
Enable only this SERVICE for a log SOURCE; can specify more than once.
.TP
\fBTAIL\fP LOG OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-J,\fP \-\-journal\-dir DIRECTORY
Tail systemd journal DIRECTORY.
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-journal\-bin\fP PATH
Set path of executable to tail systemd journal.  [default: logtail-journal]
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-journal\-since\fP [today|boot|all]
Read all systemd journal entries or since last boot (ignores cursor.)
.TP
\fB\-f,\fP \-\-tail\-file LOGFILE
Tail text log LOGFILE; can specify more than once.
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-file\-bin\fP PATH
Set path of executable to tail log files.  [default: logtail2]
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-state\-dir\fP DIRECTORY
Set path of DIRECTORY to save tail offset/cursor state.  [default: /var/lib/misc]
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-reset\fP
Delete offset/cursor state files and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-dryrun\fP
Use but do not update tail offset/cursor.
.TP
\fB\-\-tail\-ignore\fP
Ignore and do not update tail offset/cursor.
.TP
\fBGENERAL\fP OUTPUT OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-stdout\fP
Output results to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-devnull\fP
Output results to /dev/null.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-template\-file\fP FILENAME
Use FILENAME instead of default output template.
.TP
\fB\-\-max\-logentries\fP INTEGER
Maximum number of entries to report.  [default: 250]
.TP
\fBFILE\fP OUTPUT OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-file\-dir\fP DIRECTORY
Output results to file in DIRECTORY.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-file\-name\fP FILENAME
Output results to FILENAME in DIRECTORY when a single SERVICE is specified.
.TP
\fBSMTP\fP OUTPUT OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\fP / \-\-no\-output\-smtp
Enable SMTP output.  [default: output-smtp]
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-host\fP HOSTNAME
Mail server hostname or address.  [default: localhost]
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-port\fP INTEGER
Mail server port.  [default: 25]
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-auth\-ssl\fP
Mail server uses SSL connection.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-auth\-tls\fP
Mail server uses TLS.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-auth\-username\fP USERNAME
Mail server authentication username.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-auth\-password\fP PASSWORD
Mail server authentication password.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-rcpt\fP EMAIL
Email recipient address. Required.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-sender\fP EMAIL
Email sender address.  [default: recipient address]
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-rcpt\-name\fP NAME
Email recipient name.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-sender\-name\fP NAME
Email sender name.  [default: recipient name]
.TP
\fB\-\-output\-smtp\-subject\fP SUBJECT
Email subject line.
.TP
\fBTIMING\fP OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-wait\fP SECONDS
Wait SECONDS before scanning (give logs time to settle.)
.TP
\fB\-\-slowroll\fP SECONDS
Watch for log activity for no less than SECONDS (to satisfy rate limits.)
.TP
\fB\-\-batch\-interval\fP SECONDS
Watch for more log activity within SECONDS.
.TP
\fBDIAGNOSTIC\fP OPTIONS:
.PP
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fP
Run without using or updating tail offset/cursor.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-rules\fP
Print rules and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-conf\fP
Print source and service configurations and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-field\-types\fP
Print source field types and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-skip\-drop\-rules\fP
Skip drop rules.
